Welcome to the animated series on high volume hemo
filtration hosted by life nephrology campus.
In the first episode,
we will review the recently published convinced trial.
Currently one of the biggest randomized controlled outcome
trial in dialysis.
High blood pressure, diabetes, infections,
and inherited diseases are the leading causes
that contribute to chronic kidney disease.
Approximately 10%
of the general population suffer from kidney damage,
and a substantial portion
of these patients progress into end stage kidney disease.
Prompting the initiation of kidney replacement therapy.
In fact, one in 6,800 Europeans start kidney replacement
therapy every year.
In 2016, the overall five year survival rate
of patients on kidney replacement therapy was as low as 52%.
Hemodialysis is the most common form
of kidney replacement therapy, followed by transplantation
and peritoneal dialysis.
Over the past four decades, the landscape
of dialysis technologies accessible
to clinicians has undergone a significant improvement.
It has transitioned from acetate
to bicarbonate based solutions.
Improved dialyzer membrane biocompatibility shifted from low
flux to high flux dialyzer transition from contaminated
to ultrapure dialysis fluid,
and finally, from diffusive to connective modalities Like
diafiltration, hemofiltration combines
convective and diffusive methods together
with high flux dialyzer.
A growing body of evidence indicates that treatment
with hemofiltration is associated with reduced all cause
and cardiovascular mortality.
In 2023, the findings from the convinced trial,
which examined whether high volume hemo filtration provides
survival benefits compared
to conventional high flux hemodialysis were published.
High volume hemo filtration refers to treatment sessions,
which achieve target volumes
of more than 23 liters per session.
In post dilution mode enroll patients were likely candidates
for the high volume hemo filtration.
In the largest hemo filtration trial involving patients in
eight European countries, investigators highlighted the 23%
decrease in all cause mortality within the
hemo filtration group.
Beyond survival benefits,
the convinced study demonstrated the successful achievement
of high convective volume in the clinic,
achieving the targeted 23 liters session in
92% of treatments.
Furthermore, the proven safety, high patient tolerance,
and comparable patient adherence rates across both dialysis
modalities supports the integration
of hemo filtration into standard clinical practice.
In the next episode, we'll explain what makes the difference
between a hemodialysis and hemofiltration treatment.